A new article - Canal JSON Protocol (#7381)
pingcap/docs: ticdc/ticdc-canal-json.md

---
title: TiCDC Canal-JSON Protocol
summary: Learn the concept of TiCDC Canal-JSON Protocol and how to use it.
---

# TiCDC Canal-JSON Protocol

Canal-JSON is a data exchange format protocol defined by [Alibaba Canal](https://github.com/alibaba/canal). In this document, you can learn how Canal-JSON data formats are implemented in TiCDC, including the TiDB extension field, the definitions of the Canal-JSON data formats, and comparison with the official Canal.

## Use Canal-JSON

When using Message Queue (MQ) as the downstream Sink, you can specify Canal-JSON in `sink-uri`. TiCDC wraps and constructs Canal-JSON messages with Event as the basic unit, and sends TiDB data change Events downstream.

There are three types of Events:

* DDL Event: Represents a DDL change record. It is sent after an upstream DDL statement is successfully executed. The DDL Event is sent to the MQ Partition with the index being 0.
* DML Event: Represents a row data change record. This type of Event is sent when a row change occurs. It contains the information about the row after the change occurs.

> * WATERMARK Event: Represents a special time point. It indicates that the Events received before this point is complete. It applies only to the TiDB extension field and takes effect when you set `enable-tidb-extension` as `true` in `sink-uri`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* WATERMARK Event: Represents a special time point. It indicates that the Events received before this point is complete. It applies only to the TiDB extension field and takes effect when you set `enable-tidb-extension` to `true` in `sink-uri`.
```

### DML Event

TiCDC encodes a row of DML data change event as follows:

```json
{
    "id": 0,
    "database": "test",
    "table": "tp_int",
    "pkNames": [
        "id"
    ],
    "isDdl": false,
    "type": "INSERT",
    "es": 1639633141221,
    "ts": 1639633142960,
    "sql": "",
    "sqlType": {
        "c_bigint": -5,
        "c_int": 4,
        "c_mediumint": 4,
        "c_smallint": 5,
        "c_tinyint": -6,
        "id": 4
    },
    "mysqlType": {
        "c_bigint": "bigint",
        "c_int": "int",
        "c_mediumint": "mediumint",
        "c_smallint": "smallint",
        "c_tinyint": "tinyint",
        "id": "int"
    },
    "data": [
        {
            "c_bigint": "9223372036854775807",
            "c_int": "2147483647",
            "c_mediumint": "8388607",
            "c_smallint": "32767",
            "c_tinyint": "127",
            "id": "2"
        }
    ],
    "old": null,
    "_tidb": {     // TiDB extension field
        "commitTs": 163963314122145239
    }
}
```

### WATERMARK Event

> TiCDC sends a WATERMARK Event only when you set `enable-tidb-extension` to `true`. The value of the `type` field is `TIDB_WATERMARK`. The Event contains the `_tidb` field that contains only `watermarkTs`. The value of `watermarkTs` is the TSO recorded when the Event is sent.

Reviewer: Cannot understand 【The Event contains the `_tidb` field that contains only `watermarkTs`.】

> TiCDC sends a WATERMARK Event only when you set `enable-tidb-extension` to `true`. The value of the `type` field is `TIDB_WATERMARK`. The Event contains the `_tidb` field that contains only `watermarkTs`. The value of `watermarkTs` is the TSO recorded when the Event is sent.

Author: ```suggestion
TiCDC sends a WATERMARK Event only when you set `enable-tidb-extension` to `true`. The value of the `type` field is `TIDB_WATERMARK`. The Event contains the `_tidb` field, and the field contains only one parameter `watermarkTs`. The value of `watermarkTs` is the TSO recorded when the Event is sent.
```

> When you receive an Event of this type, all Events with `commitTs` less than `watermarkTs` have been sent. Because TiCDC provides the "At Least Once" semantics, data might be sent repeatedly. If a subsequent Event with `commitTs` less than `watermarkTs` is received, you can safely ignore it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you receive an Event of this type, all Events with `commitTs` less than `watermarkTs` have been sent. Because TiCDC provides the "At Least Once" semantics, data might be sent repeatedly. If a subsequent Event with `commitTs` less than `watermarkTs` is received, you can safely ignore this Event.
```

The following is an example of the WATERMARK Event.

```json
{
    "id": 0,
    "database": "",
    "table": "",
    "pkNames": null,
    "isDdl": false,
    "type": "TIDB_WATERMARK",
    "es": 1640007049196,
    "ts": 1640007050284,
    "sql": "",
    "sqlType": null,
    "mysqlType": null,
    "data": null,
    "old": null,
    "_tidb": {     // TiDB extension field
        "watermarkTs": 429918007904436226
    }
}
```

### Data resolution on the consumer side

> As you can see from the example above, Canal-JSON has a uniform data format, with different field filling rules for different Event types. You can use a uniform method to resolve this JSON format data, and then determine the Event type by checking the field values.

Reviewer: 原文里的“消费者”是用户 "you" 吗？

Author: 和金灵确认了下。我们这篇文档的读者就是 message 的消费者。所以用 you 也没问题的。

| bigint             | [-9223372036854775808, 9223372036854775807] | -5                 |
| bigint unsigned    | [0, 9223372036854775807]                    | -5                 |
| bigint unsigned    | [9223372036854775808, 18446744073709551615] | 3                  |

The following table shows the mapping relationships between Java SQL Types in TiCDC and their codes.

| Java SQL Type | Java SQL Type Code |
| :-------------| :------------------|
| CHAR          | 1                  |
| DECIMAL       | 3                  |
| INTEGER       | 4                  |
| SMALLINT      | 5                  |
| REAL          | 7                  |
| DOUBLE        | 8                  |
| VARCHAR       | 12                 |
| DATE          | 91                 |
| TIME          | 92                 |
| TIMESTAMP     | 93                 |
| BLOB          | 2004               |
| CLOB          | 2005               |
| BIGINT        | -5                 |
| TINYINT       | -6                 |
| Bit           | -7                 |

For more information about Java SQL Types, see [Java SQL Class Types](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/sql/Types.html).

> ## Comparison of TiCDC Canal-JSON and official Canal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Comparison of TiCDC Canal-JSON and the official Canal
```

The way that TiCDC implements the Canal-JSON data format, including the `Update` Event and the `mysqlType` field, differs from the official Canal. The following table shows the main differences.

| Item            | TiCDC Canal-JSON                  | Canal                                |
|:----------------|:-------------------------|:-------------------------------------|
| Event of `Update` Type  | The `old` field contains all the column data | The `old` field contains only the modified column data    |

> | `mysqlType` field  | For types with parameters, it does not contain the information about the type parameter      | For types with parameters, it contains the full information about the type parameter    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `mysqlType` field  | For types with parameters, it does not contain the information of the type parameter      | For types with parameters, it contains the full information of the type parameter    |
```

        }
    ],
    "old": [                              // In TiCDC, this field contains all the column data.
        {
            "c_bigint": "9223372036854775807",
            "c_int": "2147483647",        // Modified column
            "c_mediumint": "8388607",
            "c_smallint": "32767",
            "c_tinyint": "127",           // Modified column
            "id": "2"
        }
    ]
}
```

For the official Canal, the `old` field in the output event message contains only the modified column data, as shown below.

```json
{
    "id": 0,
    ...
    "type": "UPDATE",
    ...
    "sqlType": {
        ...
    },
    "mysqlType": {
        ...
    },
    "data": [
        {
            "c_bigint": "9223372036854775807",
            "c_int": "0",
            "c_mediumint": "8388607",
            "c_smallint": "32767",
            "c_tinyint": "0",
            "id": "2"
        }
    ],
    "old": [                              // In Canal, this field contains only the modified column data.
        {
            "c_int": "2147483647",        // Modified column
            "c_tinyint": "127",           // Modified column
        }
    ]
}
```

### `mysqlType` field

> For the `mysqlType` field, if a type contains parameters, the official Canal contains the full information about the type parameter. TiCDC does not contain such information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the `mysqlType` field, if a type contains parameters, the official Canal contains the full information of the type parameter. TiCDC does not contain such information.
```

> In the following example, all the table definition SQL statements (such as `decimal`, `char`, `varchar` and `enum`) contain parameters. By comparing the Canal-JSON formats generated by TiCDC and the official Canal, you can see that TiCDC only contains the basic MySQL information in the `mysqlType` field. If you need the full information of the type parameter, you need to implement it by other means.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, the table-defining SQL statement contains a parameter for each column, such as the ones for `decimal`, `char`, `varchar` and `enum`. By comparing the Canal-JSON formats generated by TiCDC and the official Canal, you can see that TiCDC only contains the basic MySQL information in the `mysqlType` field. If you need the full information of the type parameter, you need to implement it by other means.
```
